---
title: 14.  Discuss relationship between the concept of relative frequency and probability. Note. How defining axioms of probability do correspond to actual properties of the relative frequency
---

If an action is repeated n times and a certain event occurred b times then the ratio b/n is called the **relative frequency**.
Where as **theoretical probability** it is used to determine the number of ways that the event can occur if an experiment is repeated a large number of times. The relative frequency is an estimate of the probability of an event.

Probability is nothing else than ratio. We will write the probability of A as P(A) or Pr(A). So
what do we mean by probability? A random experiment cannot be predicted in the short run. For example, if
we roll a die we cannot tell which number will be rolled. However, we can say a lot about the long run
frequency of each of the outcomes. If we roll the die a million times, we know that about a sixth of the rolls will
be a 1. This long term frequency is the probability of the outcome.

### There are three axioms of probability, or rules that probability values must follow and works for relative frequency too .
1. P(S) = 1. The sample space is the set of all possible outcomes. Therefore, some outcome within S
occurs each time, so its relative frequency must be 100%, or 1.
2. P(A) ≥ 0. The relative frequency must be equal to or greater than 0 since an event cannot occur a
negative amount.
3. If A and B are disjoint events, meaning they share no outcomes(A ∩ B = ∅)
, then P(A ∩ B) =0 and P(A U B) = P(A) + P(B). 


