---
title: 2. Explain the concept of data set obtained by a population of statistical units and a set of variables (attributes)
---
**Data set** is a collection of data. In the case of tabular data, a data set corresponds to one or more database tables, where every column of a table represents a particular variable or attribute, and each row corresponds to a given record of the data set in question, which is the called **observation**, that is the statistical unit. The data set lists values for each of the variable, such as hobby of some one. A data set can be uni-variate , one variable and multi-variate, which is multiple attributes

**Univariate data set:-** When we conduct a study that looks at only one variable, we say that we are working with univariate variable.Suppose, for example, that we conduct a survey to estimate the average weight of students in this class.

**Bivariate data set:-** When we conduct a study that examines the relationship between two variables, we are working with bivariate data. Suppose we conducted a study to see if there is a relationship between the height and weight of students in this class.

### Here is one practical example: 
let’s take a group of 30 people at class, that is our statistical population. Each person in the population/class in this case represents a statistical unit. Let’s imagine that a survey is constructed and it consists of 3 questions:

   - What is your age?
   - What is your gender?
   - what is your favorite programming language?

