---
title: 11. Describe the relationship between the concept of “statistic” as function of known data as opposed as to concept of “state of nature” or “parameter” in the unknown population?
---
There are two meanings to the word “statistic”:

    - Statistic as a function of known data
    - Statistic as a science

More specifically, regarding the first meaning, ***statistic*** (singular) or ***sample statistic** is any quantity computed from values in a sample, often the mean. Technically speaking, a statistic can be calculated by applying any mathematical function to the values found in a sample of data. The function itself is independent of the unknown estimands; that is, the function is strictly a function of the data.

In statistics (as a science), there is an important distinction between a statistic and a parameter. ***“Parameter”*** refers to any characteristic of a population under study. When it is not possible or practical to directly measure the value of a population parameter, statistical methods are used to infer the likely value of the parameter on the basis of a statistic computed from a sample taken from the population. Parameter is generally an unobservable quantity describing a property of a statistical population. A parameter can only be computed exactly if entire population can be observed without error; for instance, in a perfect census or for a population of standardized test takers. ***A parameter is to a population as a statistic is to a sample***.  

