---
title: 24. Interpretation and importance of the Bayes Theorem in statistical inference and the concept of prior, posterior probabilities and the likelihood.
---

**Bayes' theorem** is a formula that describes how to update the probabilities of hypotheses when given evidence. It follows simply from the axioms of conditional probability, but can be used to powerfully reason about a wide range of problems involving belief updates. It allows you to update predicted probabilities of an event by incorporating new information.

 The Formula For Bayes' Theorem Is

P(A∣B)=P(A⋂B)P(B)=P(A)⋅P(B∣A)P(B)where:P(A)= The probability of A occurringP(B)= The probability of B occurringP(A∣B)=The probability of A given BP(B∣A)= The probability of B given AP(A⋂B))= The probability of both A and B occurring\begin{aligned} &P\left(A|B\right)=\frac{P\left(A\bigcap{B}\right)}{P\left(B\right)}=\frac{P\left(A\right)\cdot{P\left(B|A\right)}}{P\left(B\right)}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &P\left(A\right)=\text{ The probability of A occurring}\\ &P\left(B\right)=\text{ The probability of B occurring}\\ &P\left(A|B\right)=\text{The probability of A given B}\\ &P\left(B|A\right)=\text{ The probability of B given A}\\ &P\left(A\bigcap{B}\right))=\text{ The probability of both A and B occurring}\\ \end{aligned}​P(A∣B)=P(B)
P(A⋂B)​=P(B)
P(A)⋅P(B∣A)​where:P(A)= The probability of A occurringP(B)= The probability of B occurringP(A∣B)=The probability of A given BP(B∣A)= The probability of B given AP(A⋂B))= The probability of both A and B occurring​

**Bayesian inference** is a method of statistical inference in which Bayes' theorem is used to update the probability for a hypothesis as more evidence or information becomes available. Bayesian inference is an important technique in statistics, and especially in mathematical statistics. Bayesian updating is particularly important in the dynamic analysis of a sequence of data. Bayesian inference has found application in a wide range of activities, including science, engineering, philosophy, medicine, sport, and law. In the philosophy of decision theory, Bayesian inference is closely related to subjective probability, often called "Bayesian probability". 

