---
title: 7. The most important families of theoretical distribution.
---
**Theoretical distribution** is when you **know** what the **distribution** is and its **parameters**

**Empirical distribution** is when we start **knowing nothing**. What we have is a collection of observations, and we want to try and derive some knowledge from that collection. 

### Continuous distribution

1. **Uniform distribution:-** is a type of distribution in which all outcomes are equally likely; each variable has the same probability that it will be the outcome. A deck of cards has within it uniform distributions because the likelihood of drawing a heart, a club, a diamond or a spade is equally likely. A coin also has a uniform distribution because the probability of getting either heads or tails in a coin toss is the same.
2. **Normal distribution:-** Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a theoretical distribution that is symmetric about the mean, showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data far from the mean.
 3. **chi square:-** The chi-square distribution (also chi-squared or χ2-distribution) with k degrees of freedom is the distribution of a sum of the squares of k independent standard normal random variables. The chi-square distribution is a special case of the gamma distribution and is one of the most widely used probability distributions in inferential statistics, notably in hypothesis testing or in construction of confidence intervals.
 4. **gamma:-**  The gamma distribution is a two-parameter family of continuous probability distributions. The exponential distribution, Erlang distribution, and chi-squared distribution are special cases of the gamma distribution. 
 5. **beta:-**  the beta distribution is a family of continuous probability distributions defined on the interval [0, 1] parametrized by two positive shape parameters, denoted by α and β, that appear as exponents of the random variable and control the shape of the distribution. It is a special case of the Dirichlet distribution. 
 6. **exponential:-** the exponential distribution is the probability distribution of the time between events in a Poisson point process, i.e., a process in which events occur continuously and independently at a constant average rate. It is a particular case of the gamma distribution.  
 
 ### Discrete distribution

  1. **Boolean:–** a distribution with value either true or flase.
  2. **Binomial:-** is a distribution that has the following properties: 

  - The experiment consists of n repeated trials.
  - Each trial can result in just two possible outcomes. We call one of these outcomes a success and the other, a failure.
  - The probability of success, denoted by P, is the same on every trial.
  - The trials are independent that is, the outcome on one trial does not affect the outcome on other trials.

  3. **Multinomial:-** is almost identical with one main difference: a binomial experiment can have two outcomes, while a multinomial experiment can have multiple outcomes. 
